# Spotify-Most-Streamed-2024-Analysis
An analysis of data provided by Spotify API. I used Python to analyze the 4600 most streamed songs on Spotify in 2024 to prove that Spotify had not inflated artist "Kendrick Lamar's" song "Not Like Us" as touted by artist "Drake".


This project involves obtaining raw data directly from Spotify's API. During this ETL process, I used various methods to transform and load the data, which ensured the reliability of the data after removing erroneous entries and results that were not properly encoded in Unicode format. After loading the correctly formatted data, I began to examine various aspects regarding both artists and determined that song count, popularity, and stream count would be important to concluding whether the streamplay count was inflated or not.

With this, we were able to determine that there is a hotspot in the dataset where multiple results indicate a higher-than-normal amount of occurrences for artist popularity at a popularity rating score of at least 80. After determining this threshold, we want to examine the dataset to find the top 10 artists in our dataset and the number of songs attributed to them in the dataset, before and after the inclusion of the popularity rating threshold of 80 as a filter.

The first instance of artists present in the top 10 list for 2024 includes well-known artists such as Drake, Taylor Swift, The Weeknd, Travis Scott, and Billie Eilish with Drake leading at ~60 songs out of the 4600 total songs listed within the dataset indicating that he must be dominating in popularity over Kendrick Lamar who wasn't included in this first graphing due to only having 4 popular songs within the 4600 song dataset. Within this same graph, we also see Taylor Swift at position 2 with ~58 most popular songs in the dataset just shortly behind Drake's song count.

In the second graphical instance of artists present in the top 10 list for 2024 after filtering for a minimum popularity score threshold of 80 the list still includes well-known artists Taylor Swift, Billie Eilish, Travis Scott, and The Weeknd. Drake is no longer considered in the top 10 with this threshold filter. It is important to note artists included in the previous list had an overall song count had reduced due to not meeting the threshold filter. With the filter of a minimum popularity score of 80, Taylor Swift and Billie are listed at 10 songs, The Weeknd at 6 songs, and Travis Scott at 3 songs. This reduction of song count, but the ability to remain on the list or increase standing within the list is a testament to their popularity. Being on the top 10 list prior and being removed from the list by filtering with the threshold, even though they had enough songs to make the top 10 list prior indicates they had MANY songs that met a total stream per song threshold to be included within the 4600 dataset, but they are songs at the BOTTOM of the list in terms of popularity and plays compared to every other song overall. Those that were not on the previous top 10 list and are included on the list now indicate they had songs that were very popular with total streams per song at the TOP compared to every other song overall. We see on this list now artist Kendrick Lamar as the 5th most popular due to having the second most popular song, with 3 other songs with hundreds of millions of streams per song. We also see Drake is not on the second list due to his songs having such a low play count and popularity compared to the other artists.

In examining the lawsuit Drake instigated against both Spotify and his label, I would consider examining these facts of data and findings to provide support against Drake and his litigation. I conclude that due to Drake having so many songs filtered out to having a popularity score of less than 80, while the heat map of songs indicated that all the popular most streamed songs had at least 80 means that all his songs combined collectively were less popular than Kendrick Lamar's count of 4 songs included within the second list, that met the popularity threshold of 80 with hundreds of millions of streams per song. It is not unreasonable to assume that Kendrick Lamar with many hit songs topping stream counts higher than the stream count on his song 'Not Like Us' had achieved hundreds of millions of plays due to its booming online popularity and trendiness, which Drake baselessly alleges has inflated stream plays regardless.
